.TH SOS COLLECT 1 "April 2020"

.SH NAME
sos collect \- Collect sosreports from multiple (cluster) nodes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sos collect
    [\-a|\-\-all\-options]
    [\-b|\-\-become]
    [\-\-batch]
    [\-c CLUSTER_OPTIONS]
    [\-\-chroot CHROOT]
    [\-\-case\-id CASE_ID]
    [\-\-cluster\-type CLUSTER_TYPE]
    [\-\-container\-runtime RUNTIME]
    [\-e ENABLE_PLUGINS]
    [--encrypt-key KEY]\fR
    [--encrypt-pass PASS]\fR
    [\-\-group GROUP]
    [\-j|\-\-jobs JOBS]
    [\-\-save\-group GROUP]
    [\-\-nopasswd-sudo]
    [\-k PLUGIN_OPTION]
    [\-\-label LABEL]
    [\-\-log-size SIZE]
    [\-n SKIP_PLUGINS]
    [\-\-nodes NODES]
    [\-\-no\-pkg\-check]
    [\-\-no\-local]
    [\-\-primary PRIMARY]
    [\-\-image IMAGE]
    [\-\-force-pull-image TOGGLE, --pull TOGGLE]
    [\-\-registry-user USER]
    [\-\-registry-password PASSWORD]
    [\-\-registry-authfile FILE]
    [\-o ONLY_PLUGINS]
    [\-p SSH_PORT]
    [\-\-password]
    [\-\-password\-per\-node]
    [\-\-preset PRESET]
    [\-\-skip-commands COMMANDS]
    [\-\-skip-files FILES]
    [\-s|\-\-sysroot SYSROOT]
    [\-\-ssh\-user SSH_USER]
    [\-t|\-\-threads THREADS]
    [\-\-timeout TIMEOUT]
    [\-\-transport TRANSPORT]
    [\-\-tmp\-dir TMP_DIR]
    [\-v|\-\-verbose]
    [\-\-verify]
    [\-z|\-\-compression-type COMPRESSION_TYPE]

.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
collect is an sos subcommand to collect sosreports from multiple nodes and package
them in a single useful tar archive. 

sos collect can be run either on a workstation that has SSH key authentication setup
for the nodes in a given cluster, or from a "primary" node in a cluster that has SSH
keys configured for the other nodes.

Some sosreport options are supported by sos-collect and are passed directly to 
the sosreport command run on each node.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-alloptions\fR
Enables all sosreport options. 

This does NOT enable all sos collect options.
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-become\fR
Become the root user on the remote node when connecting as a non-root user.
.TP
\fB\-\-batch\fR
Run in non-interactive mode. This will skip prompts for user input, with the
exception of a prompt for the SSH password.
.TP
\fB\-\-all\-logs\fR
Sosreport option. Collects all logs regardless of size. 

Default: no
.TP
\fB\-c\fR CLUSTER_OPTIONS
Specify options used by cluster profiles. The format is 'profile.option_name=value'.

For example, for the ovirt plugin if you wanted to restrict node enumeration to
a specific cluster you would use \fB'-c ovirt.cluster=example_cluster'\fR.

Available cluster options can be listed by running \fB'sos collect -l'\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-chroot\fR CHROOT
Sosreport option. Set the chroot mode. When \fB\-\-sysroot\fR is used commands default
to executing with SYSROOT as the root directory. This can be overridden by setting
\fB\-\-chroot\fR to "always" (always chroot) or "never" (always run in the host
namespace).
.TP
\fB\-\-case\-id\fR CASE_ID
Sosreport option. Specifies a case number identifier.
.TP
\fB\-\-cluster\-type\fR CLUSTER_TYPE
When run by itself, sos collect will attempt to identify the type of cluster at play.
This is done by checking package or configuration information against the localhost, or
the primary node if  \fB"--primary"\fR is supplied.

Setting \fB--cluster-type\fR skips this step and forcibly sets a particular profile.

Using a value of \fBnone\fR or \fBjbon\fR (just a bunch of nodes) will effectively
disable all cluster-specific checks, and cause sos collect to only use the nodes
specified by the \fB--nodes\fR option. Note that in this scenario, regex string(s)
for node names will be ignored.

Example: \fBsos collect --cluster-type=kubernetes\fR will force the kubernetes profile
to be run, and thus set sosreport options and attempt to determine a list of nodes using
that profile. 
.TP
\fB\-\-container\-runtime\fR RUNTIME
\fB sos report\fR option. Using this with \fBcollect\fR will pass this option thru
to nodes with sos version 4.3 or later. This option controls the default container
runtime plugins will use for collections. See \fBman sos-report\fR.
.TP
\fB\-e\fR ENABLE_PLUGINS, \fB\-\-enable\-plugins\fR ENABLE_PLUGINS
Sosreport option. Use this to enable a plugin that would otherwise not be run.

This option supports providing a comma-delimited list of plugins.
.TP
.B \--encrypt-key KEY
Encrypts the resulting archive that sos collect produces using GPG. KEY must be
an existing key in the user's keyring as GPG does not allow for keyfiles.
KEY can be any value accepted by gpg's 'recipient' option.

Note that the user running sos collect must match the user owning the keyring
from which keys will be obtained. In particular this means that if sudo is
used to run sos collect, the keyring must also be set up using sudo
(or direct shell access to the account).

Users should be aware that encrypting the final archive will result in sos
using double the amount of temporary disk space - the encrypted archive must be
written as a separate, rather than replacement, file within the temp directory
that sos writes the archive to. However, since the encrypted archive will be
the same size as the original archive, there is no additional space consumption
once the temporary directory is removed at the end of execution.

This means that only the encrypted archive is present on disk after sos
finishes running.

If encryption fails for any reason, the original unencrypted archive is
preserved instead.

IMPORTANT: As of this version of sos collect, only the final archive on the
local machine running sos collect will be encrypted. The individual sos reports
that are collected on the nodes will be collected unencrypted.
.TP
.B \--encrypt-pass PASS
The same as \--encrypt-key, but use the provided PASS for symmetric encryption
rather than key-pair encryption.
.TP

\fB\-\-group\fR GROUP
Specify an existing host group definition to use.

Host groups are pre-defined settings for the cluster-type, primary node, and nodes options
saved in JSON-formatted files under /var/lib/sos collect/<GROUP>.

If cluster_type and/or primary are set in the group, sos collect behaves as if
these values were specified on the command-line.

If nodes is defined, sos collect \fBextends\fR the \fB\-\-nodes\fR option, if set,
with the nodes or regexes listed in the group.

Note that sos collect will only write group definitions to /var/lib/sos collect/
however the GROUP value may be a filename for any group definitions that exist outside
of the default location. If you are manually writing these files, use the value \fBnull\fR
when a python NoneType is expected. Caveat: use \fBstring\fR 'none' if setting cluster_type
to none.
.TP
\fB\-\-save\-group\fR GROUP
Save the results of this run of sos collect to a host group definition.

sos-collector will write a JSON-formatted file with name GROUP to /var/lib/sos collect/
with the settings for cluster-type, primary, and the node list as discovered by cluster enumeration.
Note that this means regexes are not directly saved to host groups, but the results of matching against
those regexes are.
.TP
\fB\-j\fR JOBS \fB\-\-jobs\fR JOBS
Specify the number of concurrent node collections that should be run.

If the number of nodes enumerated exceeds the number of JOBS, then sos collect
will start collecting from the first X number of nodes and then continue to iterate
through the remaining nodes as sosreport collection finishes.

Defaults to 4.
.TP
\fB\-\-nopasswd-sudo\fR
Use this option when connecting as a non-root user that has passwordless sudo
configured.

If this option is omitted and a bogus sudo password is supplied, collection of
sosreports may exhibit unexpected behavior and/or fail entirely.
.TP
\fB\-k\fR PLUGIN_OPTION, \fB\-\-plugin\-option\fR PLUGIN_OPTION
Sosreport option. Set a plugin option to a particular value. This takes the form of
plugin_name.option_name=value.

Example: To enable the kubernetes "all" option in sosreport use \fB-k kubernetes.all=on\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-label\fR LABEL
Specify a label to be added to the archive names. This label will be applied to
both the sos collect archive and the sosreport archives.

If a cluster sets a default label, the user-provided label will be appended to
that cluster default.
.TP
\fB \--log-size\fR SIZE
Places a limit on the size of collected logs and output in MiB. Note that this
causes sos to capture the last X amount of the file or command output collected.

By default, this is set to 25 MiB and applies to all files and command output collected
with the exception of journal collections, which are limited to 100 MiB.

Setting this value to 0 removes all size limitations, and any files or commands
collected will be collected in their entirety, which may drastically increase the
size of the final sos report tarball and the memory usage of sos during collection
of commands, such as very large journals that may be several GiB in size.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR SKIP_PLUGINS, \fB\-\-skip\-plugins\fR SKIP_PLUGINS
Sosreport option. Disable (skip) a particular plugin that would otherwise run.
This is useful if a particular plugin is prone to hanging for one reason or another.

This option supports providing a comma-delimited list of plugins.
.TP
\fB\-\-nodes\fR NODES
Provide a comma-delimited list of nodes to collect sosreports from, or a regex string to
be used to compare discovered node names against. If using a regex, only nodes matching the regex
will be used - i.e. it can be used as a whitelist but not a blacklist.

This option can be handed multiple regex strings separated by commas. Additionally, both whole node
names/addresses and regex strings may be provided at the same time.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-pkg\-check\fR
Do not perform package checks. Most cluster profiles check against installed packages to determine
if the cluster profile should be applied or not.

Use this with \fB\-\-cluster-type\fR if there are rpm or apt issues on the primary/local node.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-local\fR
Do not collect a sosreport from the local system. 

If \fB--primary\fR is not supplied, it is assumed that the host running sosreport is part of
the cluster that is to be collected. Use this option to skip collection of a local sosreport.

This option is NOT needed if \fB--primary\fR is provided.
.TP
\fB\-\-primary\fR PRIMARY
Specify a primary node IP address or hostname for the cluster.

If provided, then sos collect will check the primary node, not localhost, for determining
the type of cluster in use.
.TP
\fB\-\-image IMAGE\fR
Specify an image to use for the temporary container created for collections on
containerized host, if you do not want to use the default image specified by the
host's policy. Note that this should include the registry.
.TP
\fB\-\-force-pull-image TOGGLE, \-\-pull TOGGLE\fR
When collecting an sos report from a containerized host, force the host to always
pull the specified image, even if that image already exists on the host.
This is useful to ensure that the latest version of that image is always in use.
Disabling this option will use whatever version of the image is present on the node,
and only attempt a pull if there is no copy of the image present at all.

Enable with true/on/yes or disable with false/off/no

Default: true
.TP
\fB\-\-registry-user USER\fR
Specify the username to authenticate to the registry with in order to pull the container
image
.TP
\fB\-\-registry-password PASSWORD\fR
Specify the password to authenticate to the registry with in order to pull the container
image. If no password is required, leave this blank.
.TP
\fB\-\-registry-authfile FILE\fR
Specify the filename to use for providing authentication credentials to the registry
to pull the container image.

Note that this file must exist on the node(s) performing the pull operations, not the
node from which \fBsos collect\fR was run.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR ONLY_PLUGINS, \fB\-\-only\-plugins\fR ONLY_PLUGINS
Sosreport option. Run ONLY the plugins listed.

Note that a cluster profile will NOT override this option. This may cause the sosreports
generated to not contain the relevant output for a given type of cluster.

This option supports providing a comma-delimited list of plugins.
.TP
\fB\-\-password\fR
Specifying this option will cause sos collect to prompt the user for an SSH password
that will be used to connect to all nodes.

If you have differing passwords for the same user across cluster nodes, you should
ideally deploy SSH keys, but the \-\-password\-per\-node option is also available.
.TP
\fB\-\-password\-per\-node\fR
When using this option, sos collect will prompt the user for the SSH password for
each node that will have an sosreport collected from it individually before attempting
to connect to the nodes.
.TP
\fB\-\-preset\fR PRESET
Specify a sos preset to use, note that this requires sos-3.6 or later to be installed
on the node. The given preset must also exist on the remote node - local presets
are not used.

If \fB\-\-preset\fR is specified and a given node either does not have that preset
defined, or has a version of sos prior to 3.6, this option is ignored for that node.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR SSH_PORT, \fB\-\-ssh\-port\fR SSH_PORT
Specify SSH port for all nodes. Use this if SSH runs on any port other than 22.
.TP
\fB\-\-skip-commands\fR COMMANDS
A comma delimited list of commands to skip execution of, but still allowing the
rest of the plugin that calls the command to run. This will generally need to
be some form of UNIX shell-style wildcard matching. For example, using a value
of \fBhostname\fR will skip only that single command, while using \fBhostname*\fR
will skip all commands with names that begin with the string "hostname".
.TP
\fB\-\-skip-files\fR FILES
A comma delimited list of files or filepath wildcard matches to skip collection
of. Values may either be exact filepaths or paths using UNIX shell-style wildcards,
for example \fB/etc/sos/*\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-ssh\-user\fR SSH_USER
Specify an SSH user for sos collect to connect to nodes with. Default is root.

sos collect will prompt for a sudo password for non-root users.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR SYSROOT, \fB\-\-sysroot\fR SYSROOT
Sosreport option. Specify an alternate root file system path.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR THREADS \fB\-\-threads\fR THREADS
Report option. Specify the number of collection threads to run.

The report process on each node will run THREADS number of plugins concurrently
during the collection process.

Defaults to 4.
.TP
\fB\-\-timeout\fR TIMEOUT
Timeout for sosreport generation on each node, in seconds.

Note that sosreports are collected in parallel, so you can approximate the total
runtime of sos collect via timeout*(number of nodes/jobs).

Default is 180 seconds.
.TP
\fB\-\-transport\fR TRANSPORT
Specify the type of remote transport to use to manage connections to remote nodes.

\fBsos collect\fR uses locally installed binaries to connect to and interact with remote
nodes, instead of directly establishing those connections. By default, OpenSSH's ControlPersist
feature is preferred, however certain cluster types may have preferences of their own for how
remote sessions should be established.

The types of transports supported are currently as follows:

    \fBauto\fR                  Allow the cluster type to determine the transport used
    \fBcontrol_persist\fR       Use OpenSSH's ControlPersist feature. This is the default behavior
    \fBoc\fR                    Use a \fBlocally\fR configured \fBoc\fR binary to deploy collection pods on OCP nodes

.TP
\fB\-\-tmp\-dir\fR TMP_DIR
Specify a temporary directory to save sos archives to. By default one will be created in
/tmp and then removed after sos collect has finished running.

This is NOT the same as specifying a temporary directory for sosreport on the remote nodes.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Print debug information to screen.
.TP
\fB\-\-verify\fR
Sosreport option. Passes the "--verify" option to sosreport on the nodes which 
causes sosreport to validate plugin-specific data during collection.

Note that this option may considerably extend the time it takes sosreport to run on
the nodes. Consider increasing \fB\-\-timeout\fR when using this option.
.TP
\fB\-z\fR COMPRESSION, \fB\-\-compression-type\fR COMPRESSION
Sosreport option. Override the default compression type.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sos (1)
.BR sos-report (1)
.BR sos-clean (1)
.BR sos.conf (5)

.SH MAINTAINER
.nf
Maintained on GitHub at https://github.com/sosreport/sos
.fi
.SH AUTHORS & CONTRIBUTORS
See \fBAUTHORS\fR file in the package documentation.
