.TH UPLOAD 1 "December 2024"

.SH NAME
sos_upload \- Upload files like previously generated sos reports or logs to a policy specific location
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sos upload FILE [options]
          [--case-id id]\fR
          [--upload-url url]\fR
          [--upload-user user]\fR
          [--upload-pass pass]\fR
          [--upload-directory dir]\fR
          [--upload-method]\fR
          [--upload-no-ssl-verify]\fR
          [--upload-protocol protocol]\fR
          [--upload-target target]\fR
          [--upload-s3-endpoint  endpoint]\fR
          [--upload-s3-region region]\fR
          [--upload-s3-bucket bucket]\fR
          [--upload-s3-access-key key]\fR
          [--upload-s3-secret-key key]\fR
          [--upload-s3-object-prefix prefix]\fR

.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
upload is an sos subcommand to upload sos reports,
logs, vmcores, or other files to a policy defined
remote location, or a user defined one.
.SH REQUIRED ARGUMENTS
.B FILE
.TP
The path to the archive that is to be uploaded.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \--case-id NUMBER
Specify a case identifier to associate with the archive.
Identifiers may include alphanumeric characters, commas and periods ('.').
This applies only to Red Hat uploads.
.TP
.B \--upload-url URL
If a vendor does not provide a default upload location, or if you would like to upload
the archive to a different location, specify the address here.

An upload protocol MUST be specified in this URL. Currently uploading is supported
for HTTPS, SFTP, and FTP protocols.

If your destination server listens on a non-standard port, specify the listening
port in the URL.
.TP
.B \-\-upload-user USER
If a vendor does not provide a default user for uploading, specify the username here.

If --batch is used and this option is omitted, no username will
be collected and thus uploads will fail if no vendor default is set.

You also have the option of providing this value via the SOSUPLOADUSER environment
variable. If this variable is set, then no username prompt will occur and --batch
may be used provided all other required values (case number, upload password)
are provided.
.TP
.B \-\-upload-pass PASS
Specify the password to use for authentication with the destination server.

If this option is omitted and upload is requested, you will be prompted for one.

If --batch is used, this prompt will not occur, so any uploads are likely to fail unless
this option is used.

Note that this will result in the plaintext string appearing in `ps` output that may
be collected by sos and be in the archive. If a password must be provided by you
for uploading, it is strongly recommended to not use --batch and enter the password
when prompted rather than using this option.

You also have the option of providing this value via the SOSUPLOADPASSWORD environment
variable. If this variable is set, then no password prompt will occur and --batch may
be used provided all other required values (case number, upload user) are provided.
.TP
.B \--upload-directory DIR
Specify a directory to upload to, if one is not specified by a vendor default location
or if your destination server does not allow writes to '/'.
.TP
.B \--upload-method METHOD
Specify the HTTP method to use for uploading to the provided --upload-url. Valid
values are 'auto' (default), 'put', or 'post'. The use of 'auto' will default to
the method required by the policy-default upload location, if one exists.

This option has no effect on upload protocols other than HTTPS.
.TP
.B \--upload-no-ssl-verify
Disable SSL verification for HTTPS uploads. This may be used to allow uploading
to locations that have self-signed certificates, or certificates that are otherwise
untrusted by the local system.

Default behavior is to perform SSL verification against all upload locations.
.TP
.B \--upload-protocol PROTO
Manually specify the protocol to use for uploading to the target \fBupload-url\fR.

Normally this is determined via the upload address, assuming that the protocol is part
of the address provided, e.g. 'https://example.com'. By using this option, sos will skip
the protocol check and use the method defined for the specified PROTO.

For RHEL systems, setting this option to \fBsftp\fR will skip the initial attempt to
upload to the Red Hat Customer Portal, and only attempt an upload to Red Hat's SFTP server,
which is typically used as a fallback target.

Valid values for PROTO are: 'auto' (default), 'https', 'ftp', 'sftp', 's3'.

.TP
.B \--upload-target TARGET
Manually specify the upload target to use for uploading. Possible targets
are: redhat, canonical, generic, local.
If this option is not called, sos will try to determine the local target
and use it for uploads.

.TP
.B \---upload-s3-endpoint ENDPOINT
Endpoint to upload to for S3 bucket

.TP
.B \---upload-s3-region REGION
Region to upload to for S3 bucket

.TP
.B \---upload-s3-bucket BUCKET
Name of the S3 bucket to upload to

.TP
.B \---upload-s3-access-key KEY
Access key for the S3 bucket

.TP
.B \-  --upload-s3-secret-key KEY
Secret key for the S3 bucket

.TP
.B \-  --upload-s3-object-prefix PREFIX
Prefix for the S3 object/key

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sos (1)
.BR sos-report (1)
.BR sos-clean (1)
.BR sos.conf (5)
.BR sos-collect (1)

.SH MAINTAINER
.nf
Maintained on GitHub at https://github.com/sosreport/sos
.fi
.SH AUTHORS & CONTRIBUTORS
See \fBAUTHORS\fR file in the package documentation.
