.TH sos 1 "April 2020"

.SH NAME
sos \- A unified tool for collecting system logs and other debug information
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsos\fR component [options]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBsos\fR is a diagnostic data collection utility, used by system administrators,
support representatives, and the like to assist in troubleshooting issues with
a system or group of systems.

The most well known function is \fB sos report\fR or \fBsos report\fR as it was
previously known.

An sos archive is typically requested by support organizations to collect baseline
configuration and system data from which to begin the troubleshooting process.


.SH COMPONENTS

sos supports several subcommands or components. Each provides a different set
of information for the user. Supported components are as follows

.TP
.B report
Report generates an archive of system information including configuration files
and command output. Information included in the report is based upon plugins that
are activated automatically when certain criteria, such as installed packages, files,
services, or system architecture is detected.

See \fBsos report --help\fR and \fBman sos-report\fR for more information.

May also be invoked via the alias \fBrep\fR or the deprecated command \fBsos report\fR.

.TP
.B collect
Collect is used to capture reports on multiple systems simultaneously. These
systems can either be defined by the user at the command line and/or defined by
clustering software that exists either on the local system or on a "primary" system
that is able to inform about other nodes in the cluster.

When running collect, sos report will be run on the remote nodes, and then the
resulting archives will be copied from those nodes to the local system running
sos collect. Archives are then removed from the remote systems.

See \fBsos collect --help\fR and \fBman sos-collect\fR for more information.

May also be invoked via the alias \fBsos collector\fR or the deprecated command
\fBsos-collector\fR.

.TP
.B clean|cleaner|mask
This subcommand takes input of either 1) an sos report tarball, 2) a collection
of sos report tarballs such as from \fBcollect\fR, or 3) the unpackaged
directory of an sos report and obfuscates potentially sensitive system information
that is not covered by the standard postprocessing of \fBsos report\fR.

Such data includes IP addresses, networks, MAC addresses, and more. Data obfuscated
by this command will remain consistent throughout the report and across reports provided
in the same invocation. Additionally, care is taken to maintain network topology relationships
between matched data items.

See \fB sos clean --help\fR and \fBman sos-clean\fR for more information.

May be invoked via either \fBsos clean\fR, \fBsos cleaner\fR, \fBsos mask\fR,
or via the \fB--clean\fR, \fB--cleaner\fR or \fB --mask\fR options
for \fBreport\fR and \fBcollect\fR.

.TP
.B help
This subcommand is used to retrieve more detailed information on the various SoS
commands and components than is directly available in either other manpages or
--help output.

See \fB sos help --help\fR and \fB man sos-help\fR for more information.

.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
sos components provide their own set of options, however the following are available
to be set across all components.

.B \-\-batch
Do not prompt interactively, user will not be prompted for any data
.TP
.B \-\-encrypt
Encrypt the resulting archive, and determine the method by which that encryption
is done by either a user prompt or environment variables.

When run with \fB--batch\fR, using this option will cause sos to look for either the
\fBSOSENCRYPTKEY\fR or \fBSOSENCRYPTPASS\fR environment variables. If set, this will
implicitly enable the \fB--encrypt-key\fR or \fB--encrypt-pass\fR options, respectively,
to the values set by the environment variable. This enables the use of these options
without directly setting those options in a config file or command line string. Note that
use of an encryption key has precedence over a passphrase.

Otherwise, using this option will cause sos to prompt the user to choose the method
of encryption to use. Choices will be [P]assphrase, [K]ey, [E]nv vars, or [N]o encryption.
If passphrase or key the user will then be prompted for the respective value, env vars will
cause sos to source the information in the manner stated above, and choosing no encryption
will disable encryption.

See the sections on \fB--encrypt-key\fR and \fB--encrypt-pass\fR below for more
information.
.TP
.B \--encrypt-key KEY
Encrypts the resulting archive that sos report produces using GPG. KEY must be
an existing key in the user's keyring as GPG does not allow for keyfiles.
KEY can be any value accepted by gpg's 'recipient' option.

Note that the user running sos report must match the user owning the keyring
from which keys will be obtained. In particular this means that if sudo is
used to run sos report, the keyring must also be set up using sudo
(or direct shell access to the account).

Users should be aware that encrypting the final archive will result in sos
using double the amount of temporary disk space - the encrypted archive must be
written as a separate, rather than replacement, file within the temp directory
that sos writes the archive to. However, since the encrypted archive will be
the same size as the original archive, there is no additional space consumption
once the temporary directory is removed at the end of execution.

This means that only the encrypted archive is present on disk after sos
finishes running.

If encryption fails for any reason, the original unencrypted archive is
preserved instead.
.TP
.B \--encrypt-pass PASS
The same as \--encrypt-key, but use the provided PASS for symmetric encryption
rather than key-pair encryption.
.TP
.B \--config-file CONFIG
Specify alternate configuration file.
.TP
.B \-s, \--sysroot SYSROOT
Specify an alternate root file system path.
.TP
.B \--tmp-dir DIRECTORY
Specify alternate temporary directory to copy data during execution.
.TP
.B \--threads THREADS
Specify the number of threads sos report will use for concurrency. Defaults to 4. 
.TP
.B \-v, \--verbose
Increase logging verbosity. May be specified multiple times to enable
additional debugging messages.

The following table summarizes the effects of different verbosity levels:

    1 (-v)   :  Enable debug messages for sos.log. Show individual plugins starting.
    2 (-vv)  :  Also print debug messages to console.
    3 (-vvv) :  Enable debug messages for archive file operations. Note this will dramatically
                increase the amount of logging.

.TP
.B \-q, \--quiet
Only log fatal errors to stderr.
.TP
.B \-z, \-\-compression-type {auto|xz|gzip}
Compression type to use when compression the final archive output
.TP
.B \--help
Display usage message.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sos.conf (5)
.SH MAINTAINER
.nf
Maintained on GitHub at https://github.com/sos report/sos
.fi
.SH AUTHORS & CONTRIBUTORS
See \fBAUTHORS\fR file in the package documentation.
