.TH "sos.conf" "5" "SOSREPORT" "sosreport configuration file"
.SH NAME
sos.conf \- sosreport configuration
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
sosreport uses a configuration file at /etc/sos/sos.conf, and there are
subdirectories under /etc/sos that are used for specific purposes.

Note that non-root users may override options set in /etc/sos/sos.conf by creating
their own sos.conf under $HOME/.config/sos.

The order in which options are loaded is as follows:

  1. System configuration file at /etc/sos/sos.conf
  2. User-specific configuration file at $HOME/.config/sos/sos.conf (for sos
     components that support non-root)
  3. In the case of running \fBsos report\fR, presets either automatically loaded
     due to system configuration, or specified via \fB--preset\fR
  4. Command line values


In other words, config files will override defaults, presets override config files,
and command line values override presets and config files.

.SH SUBDIRECTORIES
The following subdirectories exist under /etc/sos and are used as noted below

.TP
\fBextras.d\fP
This directory is used to store configuration files used by the sos_extras plugin.

The plugin traverses this directory and for each file there it executes commands
or collects files optionally with sizelimit.

Expected content of an extras file is as follows:
    - empty lines or those starting with '#' are ignored
    - add_copy_spec called to lines starting by ':', optionally followed by
      sizelimit
    - otherwise, whole line will be executed as a command.
    Example:
    command1 --arg1 val1
    command2
    :/path/to/file
    :/path/to/files* sizelimit

    WARNING: be careful what files to collect or what commands to execute:
    - avoid calling potentially dangerous or system altering commands, like:
      - using multiple commands on a line (via pipes, semicolon etc.)
      - executing commands on background
      - setting env.variables (as those will be ignored)
      - altering a system (not only by "rm -rf")
    - be aware, no secret obfuscation is made
.TP
\fBgroups.d\fP
This directory is used to store host group configuration files for \fBsos collect\fP.

These files can specify any/all of the \fBprimary\fP, \fBnodes\fP, and \fBcluster-type\fP
options.

Users may create their own private host groups in $HOME/.config/sos/groups.d/. If
a host group of the same name is saved in both the user's homedir and this directory,
the homedir configuration file will have precedence. When run as non-root, \fBsos collect\fP
will save host groups to the user's home dir, and create the necessary directory structure
if required.

Note that non-root users may load host groups defined under /etc/sos/groups.d/, but they
may not write new groups or update existing groups saved there.

.TP
\fBpresets.d\fP
This directory is used to store preset configuration files for \fBsos report\fP.

Presets may be used to save standard sets of options. See \fBman sos-report\fP for
more information.

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
There are sections for each sos component, as well as global values and
those for plugin options. Options are set using 'ini'-style
\fBname = value\fP pairs. Disabling/enabling a boolean option
is done the same way like on command line (e.g. process.lsof=off).

Some options accept a comma separated list of values.

Using options that don't expect a value (like all-logs or no-report)
will result in enabling those options, regardless of value set.

Sections are parsed in the ordering:
.br
- \fB[global]\fP
.br
- \fB[component]\fP
.br
- \fB[plugin_options]\fP

.TP
\fB[global]\fP
<option>      Sets (long) option value. Short options (i.e. z=auto)
              are not supported.
.TP
\fB[component]\fP
Each component will have a separate section, and it will support the options
that particular component provides. These are readily identifiable in the
\fB--help\fP output for each component, E.G. \fBsos report --help\fP.
.TP
\fB[plugin_options]\fP
Alter available options for defined (and loaded) plugins.

Takes the form plugin.option = value, for example \fBrpm.rpmva = true\fP.
.SH EXAMPLES
To use quiet and batch mode with 10 threads:
.LP
[global]
.br
batch=yes
.br
build=true
.br
threads=10
.sp
To disable the 'host' and 'filesys' plugins:
.LP
[report]
.br
skip-plugins = host,filesys
.sp
To disable rpm package verification in the RPM plugin:
.LP
[plugin_options]
.br
rpm.rpmva = off
.br
.SH FILES
.sp
/etc/sos/sos.conf
.br
$HOME/.config/sos/sos.conf (optional)
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
sos-report(1)
sos-collect(1)
sos-clean(1)
